Hello everyone and welcome to this new lecture and this lecture.
We're going to learn a very kind of advanced concept when it comes to function.
So call it lambda expressions in the previous lectures.
We've been able to learn what functions are and we'll be able as well to use some of the built in functions
such as some length whatever.
OK.
In this section let's go ahead and use lambda expressions.
So first of all let's take a look at what the definition is.
So lambda function is a way to create small anonymous function.
When I say Anonymous that means without a name.
OK.
Lambda functions are mainly used with filter and map and reduce and actually going to have the next
lectures.
We're going to discuss filter and map as well.
It can take any number of arguments but only have one expression.
All right.
Let's take a look at what they mean by the lambda expression.
Let's assume that I wanted to define a regular function.
Basic functions we have done in the past that functions take a variable and just simply square it.
So I can say okay define my function and that function will take let's say value x and the function
we're going to simply return x square.
We have done that before several times X squared shift entered.
And if I wanted to call the function I was just to call it with its name my function.
I'm gonna pass along that's a value of three.
Here we go.
So now I said three in there.
It's square that now becomes nine.
All right.
That's looks good.
Let's see how can we do the exact same operation using the lambda expression.
So here I am doing lambda expression what I could do is say okay lambda.
All right.
That's how we how we write.
Look I know it sounds a little bit confusing but let's take a look.
Lambda simply we're going to take x.
If I send you X please return back to me x square and when you do this operation return it in a variable
called Y that's it.
So y equals two lambda.
I will send you X you give me X squared.
It's the same idea here.
Here I had to find a function that takes X and return x squared.
It just this is just an elegant way of writing the exact same expression and she press shift enter.
Here we go.
So now if I wanted to call that lambda expression there's no name to it.
Right so I'm going to call that variable or the outcome or the output.
So we'll call it y and send for example it's a value of three shift enter.
Here we go.
Now we've come up with a value of nine.
All right.
Okay.
Let's take another example let's say y of ten shift enter.
Here we go come up with 100 value and so on.
Okay.
All right.
Maybe you guys didn't catch that you captured this luck yet.
Maybe.
Let's take over that example.
Let's assume they wanted to define a function.
OK.
And what that function does is simply takes three parameters and some of them up.
All right.
Let's see how can we do that in a very basic way.
And it's how can we do that using lambda expression.
So can I say OK.
Define function is called summation.
It takes three parameters that x y x y and z.
Okay.
Looks good.
The function where it simply return x plus y plus the really simple just enter and we go forward to
call the function again I will call it with its name.
I'm gonna pass along.
Let's say one two and three three parameters summation should be six K looks good.
If I wanted to do the exact same process but using the lambda expressions what I could do.
I'm going to take a results right.
Equals two lambda right.
My apologies lambda and what I could do I mean it's in the same fashion.
OK.
You basically in a simple form you put Colin right here you specify the inputs what you wanted to send
to it here is to find the output.
All right.
So if you wanted to send I want to send X Y and Z.
The output is x plus y plus the very very simple.
All right.
Okay.
Shift enter.
Here we go.
If I wanted to call the function list we're going to say or lambda expression I'm going to say results
which is my output here the outcome or the return of that function.
And I can call it whatever and I sent to it one two and three each enter.
Here we go will come up with the exact same answer.
So simply I just you know that kind of this function becomes this lambda expression which is very very
simple and very very powerful.
All right well I want you guys to do is to simply define a lambda expression that simply takes two numbers
and multiply them together.
Please go ahead pause the video and I will see you guys after the challenge
all right.
April has been able to figure out the challenge when I you to do is to simply define let's say Z equals
to multiply.
And that would
all right here because we're able to figure out the challenge we ask us to do is to simply define if
lambda using lambda expression you're going to take two variables and multiply them together.
All right.
So I'm going to say you're going to see a result equals two lambda and the lambda take X and Y and simply
return x times Y.
Very very simple variable it's like writing a note on a calculator.
It's very very powerful very very easy.
OK.
Let's run it again and it's tested.
Going to say results.
I'm going to pass along.
Let's say three and let's say six enter we go come up with 18.
Let's say you wanna test that again and let's say 10 and six you come up with 60 and so on.
All right.
That's pretty much all we have for this lecture.
I hope you guys enjoyed it.
Let's recap.
This lecture we've been able to cover lambda expressions which is kind of an easy elegant way of writing
in the exact same function.
Again you write lambda you specify the inputs.
Collins part of outputs.
Here we go.
That's it.
It's really simple very intuitive.
And that's pretty much all for this lecture in the next lecture.
I'm going to show you how can we use lambda expression to perform really advanced kind of operations
using the reduce and map.
Best of luck and I'll see you guys in the next lecture.